The Cubyz Wiki welcomes all contributions big or small. All we ask is that you follow some guidelines when creating or editing pages

== Keep pages clinical ==
 What this means is that pages should avoid containing opinions or subjective information. Try to write as if it were technical documentation.

== Maintain existing formatting ==
 Unless the explicit goal is to reformat a page, try to adhere to the existing formatting of the page without deviating too much.

== Don't spam ==
 Everyone wants their name plastered everywhere. Try to have your name known for good documentation and quality content rather than creating 100 one line pages.

== Use templates wherever possible ==
 MediaWiki templates are extremely powerful and allow us to alter content across the entire site through reusable templates. Try and use them wherever you can. If you find that no existing template suits your needs you are welcome to create your own.

== Be thoughtful with file uploads ==
 The server this site is hosted on has limited storage space available. As such there's only so much room for file uploads. You should only be able to upload 2mb files at most so make the most out of that.

== Custom CSS ==
 If you need custom CSS added please reach out to someone on the Wiki Admin team (Likely [[ALinkToTheFuture]]). They can work with you to implement whatever custom CSS you might need to make the wiki the best it can be.

== MediaWiki Extenions ==
 If you think the wiki could be improved with an extension we're open to hearing about it. As with the custom CSS, reach out to an admin to make your case.

== Talk Pages ==
 Talk pages can be used to discuss the content on a page. How they're formatted isn't really important, but you should at the very least sign your name with `<nowiki>--~~~~</nowiki>`.