This page is about the various mechanics that are tied to the player.

== Health ==
The player has 8 hearts (shaped like an [[wikipedia:Heart|anatomical heart]]), which can be empty, half-full, and full, meaning the player has a total of 16 health. Currently, health can only be lost by fall damage and cannot be regained without editing the world file manually.

== Energy ==
The player has 8 energy bars (shaped like a [[wikipedia:Stomach|stomach]]), which can be empty, half-full, and full just like hearts. Currently, there is no way to lose or gain energy, and it does nothing.

== Movement ==
The player has 3 means of movement, walking, sprinting and crouching.

Walking and sprinting are the same, except sprinting is faster. Crouching is the slowest, but you cannot fall off whole blocks, meaning you can still fall off small blocks like branches.

The player may also jump, providing enough elevation to cross 1 whole block.

While moving mid-air, your directional control is much weaker.

== Inventory and Hotbar ==
The player's hotbar is (by default) in the bottom middle of the screen, which lets the player select items or blocks to place or use. There are 12 slots in the hotbar, which can be (by default) accessed with the keys <code>1</code>,<code>2</code>,<code>3</code>,<code>4</code>,<code>5</code>,<code>6</code>,<code>7</code>,<code>8</code>,<code>9</code>,<code>0</code> <code>-</code> and <code>=</code>. Above the hotbar are also the previously mentioned health and energy bars.

The player may (by default) press E to open their inventory, which contains items that cannot be directly equipped, and must first be put into the hotbar by left-clicking an item, dragging it to a wanted slot in the hotbar, and left-clicking again to put it in the slot. The inventory contains 20 slots and a button to open the [[Crafting System|crafting]] menu.

== Building and Destruction ==
The player may (by default) press right-click to place a selected block in their hotbar, and the player may also (by default) press left-click to start destroying a block that is on their crosshair.

Different tools have faster destroying times for specific blocks, such as pickaxe tools having better effect on slate blocks, or shover tools having better effect on soil blocks.